---
title: Handling Service Worker
desc: (@quasar/app-vite) How to configure the service worker in a Quasar Progressive Web App.
---
Here you'll learn how to interact with the Service Worker from within your website/app space. Remember, **service workers MUST be served over HTTPS**.

It's important to note that the Service Worker (which gets automatically generated by Workbox -- or you've configured Quasar CLI to use your custom one) runs in a separate thread. You can however interact with it from app-space from within `/src-pwa/register-service-worker.js` file.

## Interacting with Service Worker

Notice the [register-service-worker](https://github.com/yyx990803/register-service-worker) npm package, which comes out of the box along with Quasar CLI (so don't install it yourself).

```js
// src-pwa/register-service-worker.js file

import { register } from 'register-service-worker'

register(process.env.SERVICE_WORKER_FILE, {
  ready (registration) {
    console.log('Service worker is active.')
  },

  registered (registration) {
    console.log('Service worker has been registered.')
  },

  cached (registration) {
    console.log('Content has been cached for offline use.')
  },

  updatefound (registration) {
    console.log('New content is downloading.')
  },

  updated (registration) {
    console.log('New content is available; please refresh.')
  },

  offline () {
    console.log('No internet connection found. App is running in offline mode.')
  },

  error (error) {
    console.error('Error during service worker registration:', error)
  }
})
```

::: tip
This file is automatically bundled into your website/app by Quasar CLI because it is considered as part of app-space `/src`. What this means is that you can use ES6, import other files etc.
:::

## SSL certificate

You may notice in some dev environments, that Workbox will not load your service workers during `quasar dev` if you are not using HTTPS to serve - even on localhost. You may see that there are two scripts that can't load. The Chrome browser console is relatively tight-lipped about this, but Firefox tells you what is going on. The three options you have are:
 - set quasar.config.js > devServer > `https: true`
 - setup a loopback from localhost to 127.0.0.1 (but this is not without security implications)
 - serve your localhost over ngrok and use the https address that ngrok provides

When you set `devServer > https: true` in your quasar.config.js file, Quasar will instruct Vite to auto-generate a SSL certificate for you. However, if you want to create one yourself for your localhost, then check out this blog post by [Filippo](https://blog.filippo.io/mkcert-valid-https-certificates-for-localhost/). Then your `quasar.config.js > devServer > https` should look like this:

```js
// quasar.config.js

devServer: {
  https: {
    // Use ABSOLUTE paths or path.join(__dirname, 'root/relative/path')
    // https://nodejs.org/api/https.html#https_https_createserver_options_requestlistener
    key: "/path/to/server.key",
    pfx: "/path/to/server.pfx",
    cert: "/path/to/server.crt",
    ca: "/path/to/ca.pem",
    passphrase: 'vite-dev-server' // do you need it?
  }
}
```

More info on Vite and HTTPS [here](https://vitejs.dev/config/#server-https).

## Important Hosting Configuration

It's important that you do not allow browsers to cache the Service Worker file (by default: `sw.js`). Because otherwise updates to this file or to your app might slip through the cracks for browsers that load the service-worker from cache.

This is why you must always make sure to add `"Cache-Control": "no-cache"` to the headers of `sw.js` file via your hosting service.

As an example how this is done for Google Firebase, you would add the following to the `firebase.json` configuration:

```json
{
  "hosting": {
    "headers": [
      { "source":"/sw.js", "headers": [{"key": "Cache-Control", "value": "no-cache"}] }
    ]
  }
}
```
